docs(design): design language, Figma workflow, and design-decision tooling (#286)
downbeat-academy/downbeat-academy: .claude/skills/figma-to-component/SKILL.md

---
name: figma-to-component

> description: Turn a Figma design into Cadence code without hardcoding values — read the node, map every value onto an existing --cds-* token, map structure onto existing cadence-core components, and flag whatever has no token as a design decision. Use whenever work starts from a Figma frame, node, or link.

Author: ```suggestion
description: Turn a Figma design into `cadence-core` component, pattern, or element, without hardcoding values — read the node, map every value onto an existing --cds-* token, map structure onto existing cadence-core components, and flag whatever has no token as a design decision. Use whenever work starts from a Figma frame, node, or link.
```

Author: Applied as suggested.

---

# Figma → Cadence

> The Figma MCP server returns concrete values: a hex, a pixel padding, a shadow string, a

Author: ```suggestion
The Figma MCP server returns concrete values: a variable, a hex, a pixel padding, a shadow string, a
```

Author: Applied, and added a line under it: a bound variable is the good case because it names the intent and maps to a token directly — a raw value is the case the skill exists for. Binding variables while designing is what makes the mapping step cheap.

- `get_design_context` — the node's properties
- `get_variable_defs` — any Figma variables it binds. A bound variable maps to a token by name; a raw value does not
- `get_screenshot` — to see what you are building

If a `figma.com` link was given, that is the node. If only a file was given, get metadata
and ask which frame rather than guessing.

## 2. Map structure to existing components

**Most designs are compositions of components that already exist.** There are 27 in
`cadence-core`. Check the barrel — `packages/cadence-core/src/index.ts` — and
[`docs/design/component-inventory.md`](../../../docs/design/component-inventory.md), which
maps each component's variant axes.

For each region of the design, name the component and the props that produce it. A
"card with a title, body text and a button" is `Card` + `Text` + `Button`, not new markup.

Only what genuinely has no existing component moves to step 5.

## 3. Map every value to a semantic token

For each colour, spacing, radius, shadow, duration, and type size in the design, find the
token whose **meaning** matches — not merely the token whose value is closest.

> - Colour → the semantic role, using the five families in `design-language.md`. `--cds-color-foreground-strong`, never `--cds-color-palette-*`. A palette reference in component CSS is a defect.

Author: Add something here regarding if there isn't a semantic token that can be used, prompt the user with a question, or suggest the creation of a new token in a pragmatic and scalable fashion.

Author: Added a "When there is no semantic token for a value" section with a three-way branch: (1) a semantic token exists that was missed — most common; (2) a real gap; (3) the design drifted.

For (2) it now splits by layer, per your comment on variables: a **new primitive value** is a design decision and goes into the Figma palette to be transcribed back — the agent is explicitly told not to add it to `palette.json` directly to unblock itself. A **new role** for values that already exist belongs in the semantic layer, which is authored in code, and must be named for meaning, placed in a family, and contrast-checked.

And: **ask rather than guess** when the choice between the three is genuinely open.

> - Spacing, gap, padding → a `scale` step. Never interpolate between steps.

Author: "interpolating between steps" is not necessarily correct. An agent should often not interpolate, but let the visual appearance of an element dictate the the decision. But a token value should generally be the default.

Author: Rewritten in both the skill and `design-language.md`. It now reads: a token is the default and most "needs to be in between" instincts are worth resisting — **but the visual result decides**. Optical corrections are real, and forcing the nearest step to keep the arithmetic tidy is the wrong trade; the scale serves the design, not the reverse.

Two guardrails so it does not become a loophole: keep the departure local to one component (a repeat is a missing token), and say why in the PR — "optically centered against the cap height" is a reason, silence reads as carelessness.

- Radius → a `radii` step, chosen by how soft the component should feel.
- Shadow → an `elevation` step, chosen by what the element *is* (resting, lifted, out of flow), and paired with the matching `z-index` role.

> - Type → the productive/expressive split first, then size. Productive has no fluid scale; if the design scales chrome type with the viewport, the design is wrong.

Author: Add something in here about productive vs expressive:
- productive is generally used for traditional web application elements, forms, UI elements, components, etc
- expressive is generally used for brand-oriented elements, long-form content, that type of thing
Ensure that this paradigm is updated globally across the documentation

Author: Added to the skill, and reframed globally from "chrome vs content" to your wording — **productive** = traditional web application elements (forms, buttons, tables, navigation, dashboards, settings, microcopy), **expressive** = brand-oriented and editorial (marketing headlines, heroes, long-form bodies, quotes).

Updated in: root `AGENTS.md`, `docs/architecture/design-system.md`, `docs/design/design-language.md`, `packages/cadence-core/AGENTS.md`, both typeface package `AGENTS.md` files, the `cadence-design-system` agent, and the `new-component` and `figma-to-component` skills.
